Add Tutorial for change domain (#95)
eProsima/vulcanexus: docs/rst/tutorials/cloud/change_domain/change_domain.rst

.. include:: ../../../exports/alias.include

.. _tutorials_router_change_domain:

Change ROS 2 Domain Id
======================

.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:
    :backlinks: none

Background
----------

*eProsima ROS 2 Router*, a.k.a `DDS Router <https://github.com/eProsima/DDS-Router>`_, is an end-user software application that enables the connection of distributed ROS 2 networks (see |rosrouter| documentation :ref:`here <vulcanexus_router>`).
That is, ROS 2 nodes such as publishers and subscriptions, or clients and services, deployed in one geographic location and using a dedicated local network will be able to communicate with other ROS 2 nodes deployed in different geographic areas on their own dedicated local networks as if they were all on the same network through the use of |rosrouter|.

This tutorial explains how to use the |rosrouter| to communicate ROS 2 nodes in different Domain Ids.
The DDS protocol define Domain Id as a parameter for every *DomainParticipant*.
Different entities in different Domain Ids will never discover each other, and thus they will not communicate to each other.

> Using the |rosrouter| a bridge can be created between any *N* number of Domains so every node communicate with any other independing on the Domain Id they are from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the |rosrouter| as a bridge between ROS 2 Domains, every node will be able to communicate with any other node independent of the Domain where they are deployed.
```

As already mentioned, the approach of this tutorial is straightforward and is illustrated in the following figure:

.. figure:: /rst/figures/tutorials/cloud/change_domain.png
   :align: center

This tutorial will use the ``demo_nodes_cpp`` package, available in the Vulcanexus Desktop distribution.
First, a ROS 2 ``talker`` is launched and then a ``listener`` node is started in a different ROS 2 Domain.
This will prevent the two from communicating.
At this point, the |rosrouter| will be deployed as a bridge between the two Domains and will enable the ``talker``-``listener`` communication.
Please take into account that a specific configuration will be applied to the |rosrouter| in order to see its status and operation at runtime.

.. note::

    Communicating ROS 2 through the |rosrouter| does directly communicate the nodes in different Domains, but create a bridge to redirect all the traffic from one to the other.

>     This implies losses of performance in data communication.

Reviewer: Remove this note.

    Then, within the container, source the Vulcanexus installation with:

    .. code-block:: bash

            source /opt/vulcanexus/humble/setup.bash

#.  Setting up the development environment on the local host.
    For this second option, it is necessary to have installed the ``vucanexus-humble-desktop`` package, since this is the one that includes all the simulation tools, demos and tutorials.

    Source the following file to setup the Vulcanexus environment:

    .. code-block:: bash

            source /opt/vulcanexus/humble/setup.bash

Running ROS 2 nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once the environment has been setup using one of the above options, run the ROS 2 ``talker`` node in one terminal.

.. code-block:: bash

    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker

Then, on another terminal, run the ROS 2 ``listener`` node in ROS 2 Domain ``1``.

.. code-block:: bash

    ROS_DOMAIN_ID=1 ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener

At this point, the ``listener`` should not receive any data.
If not, please go again through the previous steps.

Deploy ROS 2 Router
-------------------

Then, create the |rosrouter| configuration file as the one shown below.

.. note::

>     If deploying Vulcanexus from the Docker image, note that you will need to have a configuration file (config.yaml) for the DDS Router Edge accessible from your Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If deploying Vulcanexus from the Docker image, note that you will need to have a configuration file (config.yaml) for the *ROS 2 Router* Edge accessible from your Docker container.
```

    This can be achieved by mounting a shared volume when launching the container, by copying the file from the local host to the container in case it is already running, or by editing a file from the Docker container itself.

.. todo:

..     Vulcanexus come already with a configuration file for changing domain from ``0`` to ``1`` installed in ``/opt/vulcanexus/humble/share/ddsrouter_tool/resources/configurations/examples/change_domain.yaml``.
..     This file can be used in :code:`ddsrouter` command with :code:`--config-path` argument.

.. literalinclude:: /resources/tutorials/cloud/change_domain/change_domain.yaml
    :language: yaml

This configuration defines 2 different *Router Participants*, internal "interfaces" for the |rosrouter|.
Each of this Participants will create DDS Entities in each of the domains, and they will forward all the data received from one Domain to the other.
Topics, Data Types, Quality of Services and order of messages will be respected when redirecting the data.

Running ROS 2 Router
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now, run the |rosrouter| with the configuration file created as an argument.

.. code-block:: bash

>     ddsrouter --config-path <path/to/file>/echo.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ddsrouter --config-path <path/to/file>/change_domain.yaml
```
